Why is one man sad and another man happy? Why is one man joyous and prosperous and
another man poor and miserable? Why is one man fearful and anxious and another full of
faith and confidence? Why does one man have a beautiful, luxurious home while another
man lives out a meager existence in a slum? Why is one man a great success and another
an abject failure? Why is one speaker outstanding and immensely popular and another
mediocre and unpopular? Why is one man a genius in his work or profession while the
other man toils and moils all his life without doing or accomplishing anything
worthwhile? Why is one man healed of a so-called incurable disease and another isn’t?
Why is it so many good, kind religious people suffer the tortures of the damned in their
mind and body? Why is it many immoral and irreligious people succeed and prosper and
enjoy radiant health? Why is one woman happily married and her sister very unhappy and
frustrated?
Is there an answer to these questions in the workings of your conscious and subconscious
minds? There most certainly is!
Reason for writing this book
It is for the express purpose of answering and clarifying the above questions and many
others of a similar nature that motivated me to write this book. I have endeavored to
explain the great fundamental truths of your mind in the simplest language possible. I
believe that it is perfectly possible to explain the basic, foundational, and fundamental
laws of life and of your mind in ordinary everyday language. You will find that the
language of this book is that used in your daily papers, current periodicals, in your
business offices, in your home, and in the daily workshop. I urge you to study this
book and apply the techniques outlined therein; and as you do, I feel absolutely
convinced that you will lay hold of a miracle working power that will lift you up from
confusion, misery, melancholy, and failure, and guide you to your true place, solve your
difficulties, sever you from emotional and physical bondage, and place you on the royal
road to freedom, happiness, and peace of mind. This miracle working power of your
subconscious mind can heal you of your sickness; make you vital and strong again. In
learning how to use your inner powers, you will open the prison door of fear and enter
into a life described by Paul as the glorious liberty of the sons of God.
Ailish McGrath (MICHP, ADH) www.ichoosetoheal.com
Page 2Joseph Murphy: The Power of your Sub-Conscious Mind
Releasing the miracle working power
A personal healing will ever be the most convincing evidence of our subconscious
powers. Over forty-two years ago I resolved a malignancy—in medical terminology it
was called a sarcoma—by using the healing power of my subconscious mind, which
created me and still maintains and governs all my vital functions. The technique I applied
is elaborated on in this book, and I feel sure that it will help others to trust the same
Infinite Healing Presence lodged in the subconscious depths of all men. Through the
kindly offices of my doctor friend, I suddenly realized that it was natural to assume that
the Creative Intelligence which made all my organs, fashioned my body, and
started my heart, could heal its own handiwork. The ancient proverb says, “The doctor
dresses the wound and God heals it.”
